The Joe Rogan experience.
Hip flexors.
That's a muscle that so few people work out and there's this guy that I follow
on Instagram, that's become very popular.
Jamie actually turned me on to him that needs over toes guy.
I saw him with mark, Mark Bell. Yeah. He was trained with Mark Bell,
but I started implementing a lot of what he does in my training routine.
And I actually got one of those monkey feet things.
If you don't know what that is,
it's a thing that you strap onto your shoe and you can attach a dumbbell to it.
So you lift. So like in, you know,
for like hip flexors to get them strong, it's kind of hard to do,
but if you want to be a strong runner or if you want to throw hard knees,
like that's really where the muscle comes from.
If you think about like throwing a hard knee, a lot of that is hit.
And it also with kicks everything about roundhouse kicks. I, I,
you know, been kicking since I was a little kid,
so I've got pretty decent hip flexor muscles,
but I don't do an exercise to work them other than this
stuff. Like, and I started maybe lunches, I guess, work them a little bit.
But using this monkey foot thing, you,
you can actually like lift weights with your hip flexes as you're lifting your
knee up. And that's all that muscle. See if you can find, uh,
like a video of him doing it,
but this guy has some really interesting perspective on a really interesting
perspective on strengthening all the muscles around your knee.
And he calls it knee over toes guy. Because traditionally, if you thought,
if you talked to someone, they'd say, Hey,
don't ever have your knee over your toes.
Cause it puts a lot of pressure on your knee. It's bad for your knee.
And his idea is no build up to where you can have your knee over your toes
easily. And if you look at his Instagram, he does a lot of like crazy,
like where he jumps and lands with knees over toes and goes all the way
down to the ground. And they could spring back up like this.
And this is a guy who had like multiple leg surgeries. And so look how he lands.
And he does a lot is his Instagram it's knees over toes guy is
his Instagram, but he's definitely got that, um,
monkey foot thing in there somewhere. Jamie CVS, he's doing the tip thing,
which is called scroll up. I'm sorry. That's good too.
But scroll up to that one way is leaning back right there. Yeah, yeah.
Watch this. This is a crazy strength in his legs. Look,
he goes all the way back,
which is hard to do already and then pops all the way forward.
That's hard to do, man. Yeah.
And that is all those muscles that we're talking about here.
That's like hamstring. So a lot of that is hamstrings too, I think because yeah,
because we'll do, yeah, we'll do a similar thing.
I obviously can't do it as good as that guy, but uh, yeah. Hamstrings glutes,
bro. The glutes are super important. Like.
Uh, and you see that pose that he's got in the middle of there, Jamie with the,
yeah. That one with the arrow.
So that's showing like the op what happened there,
that's showing the optimal position to strengthen,
like to have that sort of a, what do they call it?
A split squat where you have that crazy angle or your knees hanging way over
your toes. And you obviously you build up to it slowly.
Like he's got Miriam Nakamoto. Do you know who she is? Yeah.
Multiple time world, kickboxing champion world, more tight champion. My friend,
Miriam shout out to Miriam. Um,
she's a beast and she has a pretty significant knee injury that she's trying to
recover from. And she got a bunch of stem cells and shot in there.
But she's now doing a lot of this guy's program to strengthen all the muscles
around it,
but see how he's into doing a lot of stuff that puts you in
that position. And believe me,
the dude can do some crazy athletically, but he,
he also uses all these examples of different athletes that have incredible
explosive power with their legs. And they use these, uh,
these kinds of exercises and they, they they're strong in these positions.
So he shows a split squat, which is really hard to do, man.
It's really hard to get down like that with that knee hanging way out over your
toes and get all the way down.
So your back knee touches the ground and then pull yourself back up.
But it's true. He calls it dense strength and it was just,
you're strengthening all your tendons and all the muscles that stabilize the
knee and put the knee in a, in a good position and for kicking things, man. And,
and, and for grappling, I think, I think a lot of guys could benefit from it.
Look how flexible the dude is. Look at that picture with her.
And like he does a lot of stuff on slant boards. If you go to that one,
the video that we were just on Jamie of him doing a full split. Yeah. That one,
like, so he does a lot of stuff on slant boards where,
so he'll have like, like it's like a, a slant board,
which is good for stretching your calves out.
And I started doing this because of him too and drop all the way down with a
barbell and go all the way down to the floor.
And it's just tremendous hamstring stretch, but also strengthening.
And you see the kind of flexibility that this guy has because of it. I mean,
he can go off if you can go scoot that thing all the way up,
the dude can go all the way down to a full split and look at that.
He's doing a searcher squat grip,
like where you put it in the crux of your elbow with weights.
I don't know why he's showing some, getting slammed into the triangle. I guess.
I don't know. I'd have to listen to him, but a lot of great exercises.
And if he could find that monkey foot thing, he's got that in there somewhere.
Definitely seen on his page,
but the video might not be up or it's been somewhere else. He's just,
the only thing I could find was that tibia thing,
which is a very close thing to.
Yeah, that's a different, that's a different thing, but that's pretty dope too.
Yeah.
That's a bar where you put your feet into it and you put plates on the end of it
and it works those muscles on the tibia and you know,
you just flex the foot up and down. So it's like,
there's all these different ways you can strengthen these muscle groups that you
don't fit. Like there's no direct way to strengthen them,
like individually that you think of when you think of doing squats, you know,
you're, you're strengthening them sort of, but you know,
they're just kind of coming along for the ride and getting stronger.
Whereas this is Iceland, that's it? That's the monkey feet thing.
Those are crazy. It's dope, dude. It's really dope. I love it.
Because what I'll do is I'll like, hold on to, um, like a chin up bar like this,
and then I'll just do these leg lifts with my, uh,
and you could do leg curls with it. You can do leg lifts,
but I feel like for a guy like you,
who already has a nasty flying knee that would make your knee
even scary catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free
only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.